# location-visualizer: Q and A

In this document, we will try to answer some commonly-asked questions about *location-visualizer*.

**Q:** Is *location-visualizer* the name of specifically this software or is it a generic term, for example the name for a category of software like this?

**A:** *location-visualizer* is the proper name of exactly this piece of software. It is not a generic term for a class or category of software. The class or category of software *location-visualizer* belongs to, which deals with analyzing and visualizing geospatial data, is commonly called "geo-information systems" or GIS. To the best of our knowledge, this piece of software ("andrepxx/location-visualizer") is, as of September 2025, also the only software with the name "location-visualizer" we could find in an online search. An online search does not reveal the term "location-visualizer" to be used to classify a broader category of software.

**Q:** Is *location-visualizer* a community project?

**A:** *location-visualizer* is open-source software licensed under a free and permissive license, Apache license 2.0. Like most open-source software, it is a community project, even though the principal developer is a bit of a "benevolent dictator for life", having conceptualized the software, carrying basically all the development and also representing the project to the outside world.

**Q:** I also heard of "location history visualizer", "GPS visualizer", etc. How is *location-visualizer* related to these?

**A:** There are pieces of software or online services with similar names, like "location history visualizer", "GPS visualizer" and so on, which are from different authors and - despite potentially similar or overlapping functionality - are **not** related to *location-visualizer* in any way.

**Q:** Who uses *location-visualizer* and what is it commonly used for?

**A:** This is always hard to tell with open-source software, which anyone can freely download, clone, modify, build, fork and which does not have any telemetry or anything similar embedded. What we know is that the user base of *location-visualizer* is very diverse. On one hand, there is definitely a group of private individuals, who use *location-visualizer* as their personal fitness, activity and location-tracking service, especially since Google's *Timeline* feature is no longer available on the web. On the other hand, we are aware of some professional, commercial or government uses of *location-visualizer* as well. Examples include transportation companies visualizing relations within their network or tracking and visualizing the positions of their vehicles, mobile network operators optimizing their network by visualizing the flow of mobile nodes between regions covered by different cellular towers, but also public health authorities making use of *location-visualizer* to visualize movement data of individuals during a disease outbreak, like that of the COVID-19 pandemic from December 2019 till May 2023, either specifically for contact tracing or as a more general analysis of crowd behaviour like larger-scale traffic flows or general mobility analysis. It can also be used for environmental research like wildlife tracking. Last but not least, some individuals within the OpenStreetMap project also use *location-visualizer* to review and improve the map, for example by overlaying GPS traces they captured onto the OpenStreetMap material and looking for discrepancies. On the other hand we, as developers of *location-visualizer*, in turn also support and contribute to OpenStreetMap.

**Q:** To the developer / maintainer of the project: Why did you develop *location-visualizer* and what do you mainly use it for?

**A:** This will get long as there are many different aspects to it, which in the end led to the development of what is now *location-visualizer*.

Towards the end of 2018, I stumbled across a few research papers about new concepts in data visualization. Some were talking about concepts that we now find in a data visualization technique that is now known as "abstract rendering", which can specifically deal with very large datasets and attempts to visualize them with minimal data loss at a given resolution and color space, preserving as much detail as possible. This technique is, for example, implemented for the programming language *Python* in a library called *Datashader* by the *HoloViz* project and used mainly by data scientists to visualize large sets of coordinate data. My goal was to implement a somewhat reduced and more rigid, but thereby also higher-performing variant of this concept in the *Go* programming language, which has a considerable advantage over *Python* regarding execution speed anyhow, given that it utilizes *Go* as a programming language, which is strongly and very strictly typed, ahead-of-time compiled and statically linked. So I went ahead and created the *sydney* graphics library, which basically implements a barebones, high-performance variant of "abstract rendering" in *Go*.

After I was somewhat confident about my implementation, I thought about what one might actually use this for. I recalled that Google had a lot of location data stored in my account, and that existing GPS visualization tools like *Google Earth* or similar would never be able to keep up with this amount of data. That's how it all began.

See, I'm an open-source developer who's very active in the open-source and "hacker" community, especially in Berlin, at least since 2013. My projects, which also include the real-time signal processing software *go-dsp-guitar*, drew quite a bit of attention in the community and are well-renowned and -recognized open-source projects and widely used pieces of software by now. As of September 2025, the *go-dsp-guitar* repository has been accessed over 80000 times and the *location-visualizer* repository has been accessed over 20000 times. We can assert that these pieces of software have a significant user base, especially given their rather specific target audience and the fact that they have no commercial company and therefore no professional marketing behind them. As a result of that, I also get invited to present my work at conferences, etc., which are related to open-source software and mostly organized by non-profit organizations from this area or by enthusiasts, mainly from circles close to Berlin's (or another city's) "hacker community". Besides that, I also have a job in research, working as a scientist or research associate at a large, publicly-owned research institute. Last but not least, I also have a comprehensive and very diverse social network in general, including people I know from university, my work as a researcher, my open-source involvement or other (mainly non-profit) things I do, like my involvement in culture, music and organizations which support disadvantaged or minority groups and many of the people who are "socially close" to me are far away geographically, often living in other countries, sometimes even on other continents, which is a consequence of living in a multicultural city like Berlin, which also attracts many visitors, and being present at events, which tend to also attract many people from further away.

All this results in me living a rather nomadic life, traveling and being on the move basically all the time, often over long distances. On the other hand, having my "home base" in Berlin, a vibrant and lively metropolis in the heart of Europe known for its historical sights giving insight into the city's turbulent past, but also cultural attractions, freedom and general quality of living with all its open and green spaces and all its diversity and of course its nightlife, I also often have visitors here and then I like to show them the city. So when I'm not heading from one conference to another, I tend to either explore Berlin (which is basically a lifetime task), introduce other people to Berlin's "secrets", or spend time in another place, often abroad, exploring a different place or spending time with friends and loved ones.

I also do a lot of endurance sports, mainly running and cycling, and I ride a motorcycle. And I like to keep track of all that, both for statistics, but also for the memories. Often when I see a point on the map, I immediately know from the spatial relation what event I attended there or what other reason I had for being there, even though I usually won't recall the exact dates when I was there. So this location tracking is more or less a bit like a really detailed diary that writes itself and since, with all the involvement in research and open-source and other things, I do lead a rather exciting (but of course also demanding and often strenuous) life, there is really a lot to look at and it's just so much stuff that happens in such a short amount of time that I could never really keep track of and remember most of it if I just had the memories that are in my head. So having this logged automatically as I'm on the move and being able to see all of it is really cool. Seeing the data mapped out is often also a trigger, which then brings back more detailed and personal memories. And regarding endurance sports, having all these statistics available is also something that motivates me to improve. When you can quantify something, then you can see whether you improve and by how much and that will motivate you and you will keep improving. But also regarding city exploration, when you have a record that allows you to see where you've been, that means you can also see where you **haven't** been yet. And then you can take a deeper look what is there that might look interesting and this way you can find exciting new places to explore.

A lot of development of *location-visualizer* also happened during the COVID-19 pandemic (between December 2019 and May 2023) and I personally know many people who, like probably most, suffered in different ways from its effects and who I supported through that time. For me personally, it was also hard, since the travel restrictions that came with it upended my "nomadic life" and cut me off (at least "physically") from people who were "socially close" to me, but geographically far away. It definitely was a very tough time, especially since it was totally unclear how long it would last and how it would end. I did contribute to scientific studies at that time, also as a participant, since this made me feel like I could at least somewhat improve the situation, and it also motivated me to improve *location-visualizer* further, since I was aware of the fact that it helped, for example, researchers analyse movement patterns and identify potential hotspots and contact points where people might have aggregated and spread the disease.

Last but not least, I already noticed quite early that the data, which Google provides via their *Takeout* service, was not super reliable. I mean normally, I would expect that, if you do a *Takeout* at some point in time, and do another one somewhat later, that the only difference between the two would be additional data points that came in after the previous export. However, I noticed that this was not always the case. Every now and then, Google would decide to change some past data, remove some data points, change some details. Especially, when I once went into the office of a public health institute, Google decided not just to remove the visit there, but also basically the entire trip towards that location and back again, making it seem like I was never there - probably because it is "health-related information" and they're not "supposed" to store it, but I mean c'mon. So I never really trusted them in the first place regarding the **integrity** of the data. Therefore, I wanted to be able to at least "freeze" the data that I got from them, so that there would at least be a "canonical version" that I knew for sure wouldn't change anymore. That was one reason why I said there has to be a piece of software, which provides local storage, and can then aggregate new data as it comes in, but the existing data would remain unchanged. And then I added support for other data formats, so that one could not only get data from Google via "the cloud", but also from physical GPS loggers and so on. So over time, this became a more comprehensive solution. And then Google discontinued their cloud-based "Timeline" service and migrated to the new on-device version of "Timeline" and it is clear that a lot of data gets lost in the process and that "Timeline" is no longer accessible from the computer and people have all sorts of issues with it. So I'm really glad that we have an alternative now - or by now we do in fact have multiple, but *location-visualizer* is one of them and it started quite early, back in 2019, when there basically wasn't much, if anything, else in that regard.

So there were lots of reasons for me to develop *location-visualizer* and my hope as an open-source developer, of course, is that it will not only be useful for me, but for many other people as well.

**Q:** Is *location-visualizer* a ready-to-use application or is it a library for building visualizations for location-based or geospatial data?

**A:** *location-visualizer* is a lightweight, ready-to-use ("production-ready" if you will) application. So far, there are no "official" binaries available, so it has to be built from source. However, that is not uncommon, specifically for Go-based open-source applications.

**Q:** Why don't you provide binary builds for *location-visualizer*?

**A:** *location-visualizer* is a server application intended mainly for professional use by data scientists and enthusiasts, who will be able to install the relevant toolchains, check out the source code from our repository and build this application from source. *location-visualizer* is fully portable and has no system-specific dependencies, so it can be built for basically any platform that the Go compiler toolchain supports. We won't be able to cover all platforms (combinations of instruction set architecture and operating system) with binary builds anyhow. We may consider starting to provide binary builds for certain platforms at a later point in time. However, currently this is not regarded as a priority.

**Q:** Is there support for "raw" and / or "semantic" location data in *location-visualizer*?

**A:** So far, there is only support for "raw" location data. After Google removed Timeline from the cloud, there is basically no "semantic" location information anymore and we do not want to use third-party geolocation services for reasons of privacy, but also independance. "Semantic" location is also known to be very unreliable, especially as the underlying map changes over time. To do it correctly, one would have to resolve each "semantic" location entry against the state of the map exactly at that time when it was captured / created.
